Readme.md, before:

# compass-interface-codex
In short: This is the interface between NUM-Compass (which uses [FHIR Questionnaires](http://hl7.org/fhir/questionnaire.html)) 
and NUM-CODEX RDP platform (which uses the [FHIR GECCO Profiles](https://simplifier.net/guide/germancoronaconsensusdataset-implementationguide/home)).

![](docs/Transform.png)

This project consists of three components, which can also be used on their own:

* **compass-download-kotlin**: A JVM implementation, that basically does the same as the [Python downloader](https://github.com/NUMde/compass-numapp-downloader). It downloads and decrypted the queue items from the backend.
* **gecco-easy**: A set of template functions, that can be used to fill easier the GECCO profiles.
* **gecco-questionnaire**: Defines a logical model for gecco and creates the reference Questionnaire from that, also contains code 
to extract the GECCO Profiles from the logical model.

![](docs/Compass-Pipeline-Complete-white.png)
  
## How dows this work?
![](docs/Overview%20LogicalModel.png)
The LogicalModel (`gecco-questionnaire/src/main/kotlin/LogicalModel.kt`) is introspected via reflection to generate a reference Questionnaire,
from which the items can be edited or copied into another Questionnaire, preferably the 
[questionnare editor Healex developed for Compass](https://github.com/NUMde/compass-questionnaire-editor). The relation 
to the LogicalModel is preserved in the [`https://num-compass.science/fhir/StructureDefinition/CompassGeccoItem`](https://github.com/NUMde/compass-implementation-guide/blob/master/input/pagecontent/index.md) extension.

This is extension should be also available on the items on the resulting QuestionnaireResponse by the EDC app. At the moment, 
as a temporary solution, this component will copy the extensions from the Questionnaire in FHIR. 

The extension is used to fill the LogicalModel, the LogicalModel can be converted into a Bundle of FHIR resources conforming to the GECCO profiles.



## Usage
### IMPORTANT HINT
⚠You need to use **at least Java 8 Update 161, Java 9 or newer**, due to the fact that older versionen cannot use AES with more than
128 Bit due to legal reasons.

## Beginning 
Download .jar file from GitHub's releases page and execute: 
```
java -jar compass-interface-codex-1.0.1-all.jar 
   --serverUrl "http://127.0.0.1:8080/" 
   --apiId test 
   --apiKey gKdKLYG2g0-Y1EllI0-W 
   --privateKey private_key.pem 
   --publicKey public_key.pem 
   --certificate cacert.pem 
   --targetFhirRepository https://localhost:8082/fhir
   --basicAuth username:password
   --questionnairesFolder ./questionnaires
   --outDir ./out 
   --uploadBundle 
   --uploadBundleEntries 
   --uploadQuestionnaires
   --uploadQuestionnaireResponses
```
The `--targetFhirRepository` is required even if you don't use any of the `--upload[...]` options, because it is required
to generate resource IDs.

This script does the following:
```
foreach queueItem of compassServer.retrieveAllQueueItems():
    questionnaireResponse <- decrypt(queueItem)
    
    if --uploadQuestionnaireResponses is set:
        uploadResourceToFhirRepository(questionnaireResponse)
    
    questionnaire <- retrieveQuestionnaireFromCompassServer(questionnaireResponse.questionnaire)
    copyItemExtension(questionnaireResponse, questionnaire)
    logicalModel <- mapQuestionnaireResponseToLogicalModel(questionnaireResponse)
    bundle <- mapLogicalModelToGeccoProfiles(logicalModel)
    
    if --outDir is set:
        writeToFile(questionnaireResponse)    
        writeToFile(bundle)   
        
    if --uploadBundle is set: 
        uploadResourceToFhirRepository(bundle)
        
    if --uploadBundleEntries is set: 
        foreach entry in bundle:
            uploadResourceToFhirRepository(entry)
        
if --uploadQuestionnaires is set:        
    foreach questionnaire retrieved from server:
        uploadResoureToFhirRepository(questionnaire)         
        
```
Instead of retrieving the Questionnaire from [compass-numapp-backend](https://github.com/NUMde/compass-numapp-backend),
you can define a folder with JSON Questionnaires using the `--questionnairesFolder` option.

`--uploadBundle` and `--uploadBundleEntries` differ in the way the resources will be sent to the FHIR server: 
The `--uploadBundle` option puts the entire Bundle as a single resource under the `/Bundle` endpoint of the FHIR API, so
that one can query the QuestionnaireResponse's conversion result using `GET /Bundle/{QueueItemUUID}`, while the 
`--uploadBundleEntries` option puts all the bundle's entries under their corresponding endpoints (like `/Patient`, `/Observation`, ...). 

With `--uploadQuestionnaires`, the component also inserts the used Questionnaires into the FHIR repository. This way, you 
can use the `Import Questionnaire...` function of the [FhirExtinguisher](https://github.com/JohannesOehm/FhirExtinguisher) 
more conveniently.

The direct transfer to the CODEX platform is not yet supported as there are currently no SOPs for that, but we are working 
on that. To use this component in more complex scenarios, you can create your own component with a few lines of code (see below). 

## Custom scenarios
To be more flexible, you can easily set up an IDE for Kotlin development (I recommend IntelliJ Community), checkout this repository 
and edit `src/main/kotlin/custom-main.kt`. If you want to create an executable .jar, run `./gradlew shadowJar` after 
renaming your `custom-main.kt` to `main.kt`.  

# Current limitations
Since the focus of Compass is on PROs (patient reported outcomes), medication and lab module of the GECCO dataset are currently not supported. 

# Special cases in the logical model
* `demographics.ageInYears`, `demographics.ageInMonth` and `demographics.birthDate` are interchangeable, just ask for one 
  value in the Questionnaire, the other values will be calculated.
* if `anamnesis.hasChronicLungDiseases`, `anamnesis.hasCardiovascularDiseases`, `anamnesis.hasChronicLiverDiseases`, ..., 
  are set to "NO" or "UNKNOWN", resources will be emitted, which set all corresponding diseases to "NO" or "UNKNOWN".

Commit message:

v1.2.0: Introducing --noComposition option for ehrbase, adding Observation.category to smoking-status profile

Readme.md, after:

# compass-interface-codex
In short: This is the interface between NUM-Compass (which uses [FHIR Questionnaires](http://hl7.org/fhir/questionnaire.html)) 
and NUM-CODEX RDP platform (which uses the [FHIR GECCO Profiles](https://simplifier.net/guide/germancoronaconsensusdataset-implementationguide/home)).

![](docs/Transform.png)

This project consists of three components, which can also be used on their own:

* **compass-download-kotlin**: A JVM implementation, that basically does the same as the [Python downloader](https://github.com/NUMde/compass-numapp-downloader). It downloads and decrypted the queue items from the backend.
* **gecco-easy**: A set of template functions, that can be used to fill easier the GECCO profiles.
* **gecco-questionnaire**: Defines a logical model for gecco and creates the reference Questionnaire from that, also contains code 
to extract the GECCO Profiles from the logical model.

![](docs/Compass-Pipeline-Complete-white.png)
  
## How dows this work?
![](docs/Overview%20LogicalModel.png)
The LogicalModel (`gecco-questionnaire/src/main/kotlin/LogicalModel.kt`) is introspected via reflection to generate a reference Questionnaire,
from which the items can be edited or copied into another Questionnaire, preferably the 
[questionnare editor Healex developed for Compass](https://github.com/NUMde/compass-questionnaire-editor). The relation 
to the LogicalModel is preserved in the [`https://num-compass.science/fhir/StructureDefinition/CompassGeccoItem`](https://github.com/NUMde/compass-implementation-guide/blob/master/input/pagecontent/index.md) extension.

This is extension should be also available on the items on the resulting QuestionnaireResponse by the EDC app. At the moment, 
as a temporary solution, this component will copy the extensions from the Questionnaire in FHIR. 

The extension is used to fill the LogicalModel, the LogicalModel can be converted into a Bundle of FHIR resources conforming to the GECCO profiles.



## Usage
### IMPORTANT HINT
⚠You need to use **at least Java 8 Update 161, Java 9 or newer**, due to the fact that older versionen cannot use AES with more than
128 Bit due to legal reasons.

## Beginning 
Download .jar file from GitHub's releases page and execute: 
```
java -jar compass-interface-codex-1.0.1-all.jar 
   --serverUrl "http://127.0.0.1:8080/" 
   --apiId test 
   --apiKey gKdKLYG2g0-Y1EllI0-W 
   --privateKey private_key.pem 
   --publicKey public_key.pem 
   --certificate cacert.pem 
   --targetFhirRepository https://localhost:8082/fhir
   --basicAuth username:password
   --questionnairesFolder ./questionnaires
   --outDir ./out 
   --uploadBundle 
   --uploadBundleEntries 
   --uploadQuestionnaires
   --uploadQuestionnaireResponses
   --noComposition
```
The `--targetFhirRepository` is required even if you don't use any of the `--upload[...]` options, because it is required
to generate resource IDs.

This script does the following:
```
foreach queueItem of compassServer.retrieveAllQueueItems():
    questionnaireResponse <- decrypt(queueItem)
    
    if --uploadQuestionnaireResponses is set:
        uploadResourceToFhirRepository(questionnaireResponse)
    
    questionnaire <- retrieveQuestionnaireFromCompassServer(questionnaireResponse.questionnaire)
    copyItemExtension(questionnaireResponse, questionnaire)
    logicalModel <- mapQuestionnaireResponseToLogicalModel(questionnaireResponse)
    bundle <- mapLogicalModelToGeccoProfiles(logicalModel)
    
    if --outDir is set:
        writeToFile(questionnaireResponse)    
        writeToFile(bundle)   
        
    if --uploadBundle is set: 
        uploadResourceToFhirRepository(bundle)
        
    if --uploadBundleEntries is set: 
        foreach entry in bundle:
            uploadResourceToFhirRepository(entry)
        
if --uploadQuestionnaires is set:        
    foreach questionnaire retrieved from server:
        uploadResoureToFhirRepository(questionnaire)         
        
```
Instead of retrieving the Questionnaire from [compass-numapp-backend](https://github.com/NUMde/compass-numapp-backend),
you can define a folder with JSON Questionnaires using the `--questionnairesFolder` option.

`--uploadBundle` and `--uploadBundleEntries` differ in the way the resources will be sent to the FHIR server:
The `--uploadBundle` option puts the entire Bundle as a single resource under the `/Bundle` endpoint of the FHIR API, so
that one can query the QuestionnaireResponse's conversion result using `GET /Bundle/{QueueItemUUID}`, while the
`--uploadBundleEntries` option puts all the bundle's entries under their corresponding endpoints (like `/Patient`
, `/Observation`, ...).

With `--uploadQuestionnaires`, the component also inserts the used Questionnaires into the FHIR repository. This way,
you can use the `Import Questionnaire...` function of
the [FhirExtinguisher](https://github.com/JohannesOehm/FhirExtinguisher)
more conveniently.

By default, the component creates a [document-Bundle](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/documents.html), which contains
Composition, Device and Organization resources as required for the validator. With the `--noComposition` option, you can
create a
[transaction-Bundle](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/bundle.html#transaction) containing only the GECCO resources instead.

## ehrbase & fhir-bridge

If you want to use the [fhir-bridge](https://github.com/ehrbase/fhir-bridge) endpoint instead of a traditional FHIR
repository, please use only the `--uploadBundleEntries` and the `--noComposition` option.

The direct transfer to the CODEX platform is not yet supported as there are currently no SOPs for that, but we are
working on that.

## Custom scenarios

To be more flexible, you can easily set up an IDE for Kotlin development (I recommend IntelliJ Community), checkout this
repository and edit `src/main/kotlin/custom-main.kt`. If you want to create an executable .jar,
run `./gradlew shadowJar` after renaming your `custom-main.kt` to `main.kt`.

# Current limitations

Since the focus of Compass is on PROs (patient reported outcomes), medication and lab module of the GECCO dataset are
currently not supported.

# Special cases in the logical model
* `demographics.ageInYears`, `demographics.ageInMonth` and `demographics.birthDate` are interchangeable, just ask for one 
  value in the Questionnaire, the other values will be calculated.
* if `anamnesis.hasChronicLungDiseases`, `anamnesis.hasCardiovascularDiseases`, `anamnesis.hasChronicLiverDiseases`, ..., 
  are set to "NO" or "UNKNOWN", resources will be emitted, which set all corresponding diseases to "NO" or "UNKNOWN".
